
Parking Frequently Asked Questions
Why don't parking violators receive a warning before they are issued a parking ticket?

When looking at the big picture and considering the number of customers who access the campus per year (i.e., 58,920 students, 12,000 faculty and staff, countless visitors), chaos would ensue if they took advantage of parking illegally - even just once. "Warnings" are posted throughout the campus on the signs that read "Permit Required", "24 Hour Reserved", "Fire Lane", etc. In addition, we have found that issuing warnings does not stop actions of violators. We promise to our permit holders that they will be able to find a space in their assigned lot. We want to reward the customers who behave as good stewards and do not negatively impact their fellow Aggies by ensuring that they may park.
What can I do if I can’t afford to purchase a parking permit?

There are several options for customers to lower or avoid parking costs:

    Ride the bus (free)
    Purchase parking in surface lots instead of garages
    Park and ride (free) – park at First Baptist Church in College Station and ride the bus for free
    Use a combination of options and purchase parking only when you need it - by the hour, day or week instead of an annual permit
    Customers can carpool with one permit, sharing the permit cost. With virtual permits, just add the license plate for the vehicle being driven today to the permit and park.

We do provide several other services to help limit a student’s need to bring a car to town/campus:

    Weekend shuttles home and back – RedCoach
    Rideshare
    Rent cars by the hour, day or weekend – Zipcar – drivers as low as age 18; gas and insurance are included
    Bike share for getting around campus and to nearby necessities – Veo

I read that one of the main reasons parking permits have increased in costs is due to the fact that the parking garages cost so much to build. If we are paying extra for parking because of this, why do we have to pay by the hour to park in the garages, even at night?

It takes several sources of revenue (annual permits, timed visitor, special event fees and fines) to support the system. Parking auxiliaries at a Texas public university cannot be funded by the state. All costs must be paid for through fees charged to users. If someone utilizes a parking space, they should be paying or paid for. If not, then enforcement methods are employed to assure that the permit holder is not subsidizing this use. It is true that the price of parking permits will rise over time like any other product. Debt service, custodial, maintenance, personnel and equipment costs are significant. Gated access controlled locations are expensive to maintain and operate.

When comparing our rates to other universities, it is important to compare apples to apples with regards to service. What one university calls a commuter permit is not necessarily what another offers. Our general surface permit is priced at $379 (FY25). However, other institutions promote a commuter permit for much less. A Texas A&M Parking Permit offers the guarantee of a space on campus while other institutions offer more of a “license to hunt” without a sales limit. Those lucky enough to find a space will likely be at a location further away from their desired location or from campus all together. Most universities cannot offer this guarantee of space. Our rates generally fare very well when the level of service is considered and are generally below average in those comparisons. Certainly our garage and reserved parking rates are some of the lowest in the country. Parking services at Texas A&M University are generally considered industrywide as some of the finest on any campus in the nation.

As an example, a garage permit is currently priced at $711 (FY25). Debt service for the Polo Road Garage is approximately $700 per year per space. This doesn’t even touch on maintenance or utilities. So the difference has to be made up through a system of permits for space, turnover and charges for use which are tailored to meet various customer needs yet cover the cost of the system. These methods are industry standards. New construction of garages can place a great deal of pressure on rates. The cost of a single garage space can range from $15,000 to $38,000 and higher. However, a surface space, even in concrete, will run about $3,000 per space. Management does its best to maintain and add surface parking where possible. Unfortunately the needs of the overall university and service to the customer sometimes demand structured parking. In this case, the last source of revenue that will be increased is the annual permit. The more pressure placed on departmental resources the more likely permit rates are to be affected.

Permit holders also hold night and weekend parking privileges which allow for parking outside of their designated lot. Night+ permits have the same access as the night permit as well as nighttime access to ONE of the following garages: University Center, Gene Stallings Blvd, Central Campus, or Polo Rd. See Night & Weekend Parking.
Why do summer school students have to pay for parking when there are fewer students on campus and therefore more empty spaces?

Parking is a system. The annual fee for the year is prorated. Due to fewer demands on the system, there are more parking options available during the summer. However, the cost of providing the service does not diminish in the same way student population fluctuates.
I heard that the Parking Services Officers are driving vehicles and scooters. Why don't they walk or use bicycles to save gas?

Parking enforcement is a service that is necessary for the University. As with all departments, parking officers are provided with the equipment necessary to perform the tasks asked of them. Most officers do conduct their patrol on foot. Some ride bikes. Supervisors who are required to oversee larger sections of campus or officers required to deliver or make use of equipment use vehicles that meet these demands. With the Texas A&M University campus size, off main campus duties, weather and demands for prompt service, walking and riding bikes simply doesn't always get the job done.
How do I park when attending an event (football, basketball, concerts, etc.)?

Log in to My Parking and scroll to the bottom of the page. You may print this barcode or show your phone to the lot attendee. The license plate shown with the barcode must match the vehicle entering the lot. For event parking locations, please visit our athletics events and annual events pages.


     1250 TAMU, College Station, TX 77843
    979.862.7275 (PARK)  — Customer Assistance
    979.847.7433 (RIDE)  — AggieSpirit Bus
    979.845.9700  — Administration
      Contact Us

